---
layout: post
permalink: /tom-mens/
---

> Tom Mens is a full professor at the Institut d'Informatique of the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Mons (UMons) in Belgium.
He is also the director of the Software Engineering Lab.
His research interests are centered in the formal foundations of software engineering and the study and creation of automated tools to support it.
To know more about him, visit his [personal website](http://informatique.umons.ac.be/perso/Mens.Tom/).

<br>

### The (R)Evolution of CI/CD on GitHub: Promises and Perils of the GitHub Actions Ecosystem

This talk focuses on recent empirical research on software development workflow automation conducted by the Software Engineering Lab of the University Mons.
In recent years, the landscape of CI/CD tools used in GitHub repositories has changed drastically.
In less than two years since its introduction, GitHub Actions has replaced Travis as the dominant CI/CD tool.
Following a mixed-methods research approach, we carried out a quantitative analysis of CI usage, co-usage and migration in a large number of GitHub repositories, and we conducted interviews with experienced software developers to determine the underlying reasons.
We report on these insights, and explore the new emerging ecosystem of GitHub Actions in more detail.

**Time:** 14:45-15:30 <br>
**Related papers:** [On the Use of GitHub Actions in Software Development Repositories](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9978190) and [On the rise and fall of CI services in GitHub](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9825792)
